# Code formatting and structure

Code formatting, especially indentation, is a religious topic among developers. Languages like Python basically solve this for you; I think that is a good thing, because everyone is writting code that looks the same. It is easy on the eyes and instantly comprehensible. You are not disctracted by yet another way to format a body of a function. You can save time otherwise spent on [bikeshedding](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Parkinson%27s_law_of_triviality) arguments. Instead, you can focus on what the code actually does.

### Indentation
There's only one rule I'm religious about - use **4 space indentation**. Remember the focus on consistency? By indenting with 4 spaces, your code will look the same everywhere, whether someone's viewing it in Xcode, on GitHub or in a shell.

### Whitespace
As I mentioned above, this is highly personal. I tend to follow the same style as Apple with some minor adjustments:
```objc

- (void)viewWillAppear:(BOOL)animated {
    [super viewWillAppear:animated];
    // etc.
}
```
It is good practice to keep your code tidy - don't keep trailing whitespace and insert a single newline at the end of each source file. It's easier to work with command line tools on files like these. Newer versions of Xcode can be configured to do it automatically. Finally, if you're working on an older project where some code has already been written, you should always follow the conventions of that particular project, disreggarding these or your own rules. Don't mix styles.

### Various
 * Be sure to **always** encolse if-else in {}, even if the branches are one-liners; otherwise it _will_ come back and shoot you in the foot. I guarantee that.
 * Use single line pragmas, i.e. ```objc #pragma mark - Table view delegate```
 * Delete empty methods and methods that just call super, like the ones autogenerated by Xcode. Keep your code tidy.
 * On the same note, don't keep around old (commented out) code just because "it might again come handy." It's easy to resurrect it from your VCS (and by VCS, I mean git).
